# Financial-Options-Evaluation

Individual investors have more investment options than they often realize. Options like” stock options” allow us to make money if the stock market is going up and it also causes loss if the stock market is going down. As the name suggests, options give you the option to buy or sell a security (stocks, extra-traded funds, indices, commodities etc.) at some point in the future. Our team has decided to forecast the stock market for the investors (our users) to make a wise decision. It is said that regardless of any technique, accurately forecasting stock market performance is more a matter of luck than technique. However,  we have decided to forecast the stock price using “Random walk” forecasting model to build the web application, we selected this model as the winning forecast model out of different models we built and validated.

Call Options: It provide the holder the right to purchase an underlying asset at a specified price for a certain period of time. If the stock fails to meet the strike price before the expiration date, the option expires and becomes worthless. Investors buy calls when they think the share price of the underlying security will rise or sell a call if they think it will fall. Selling an option is also referred to as ''writing'' an option.

Put options: It give the holder the right to sell an underlying asset at a specified price (the strike price). The seller (or writer) of the put option is obligated to buy the stock at the strike price. Put options can be exercised at any time before the option expires. Investors buy puts if they think the share price of the underlying stock will fall, or sell one if they think it will rise.

Random walk is a stock market theory that states that the past movement or direction of the price of a stock or overall market cannot be used to predict its future movement. Originally examined by Maurice Kendall in 1953, the theory states that stock price fluctuations are independent of each other and have the same probability distribution, but that over a period of time, prices maintain an upward trend. In short, random walk says that stocks take a random and unpredictable path. The chance of a stock's future price going up is the same as it going down. A follower of random walk believes it is impossible to outperform the market without assuming additional risk.
